In this guide we will be generating a web site from an action model.

In this model an action is a unit of interaction between the user and the web site.

Actions are organized in a hierarchy. 
The root of the hierarchy is called the root action.
The first navigation child of the root action is called the principal action.

Actions have activator and activator type attributes.
These attributes define what happens when the user clicks on the action link.
In this guide we will use Reference activator type.

Actions may have content. 
The content is displayed in the content panel when the action is activated.

Actions can be in different roles. 
Action role defines placement of the action link or action content on the page.

The root action is displayed in the page header.

The principal action is displayed in the navigation bar.

If the root action has more than one navigation child, then navigation siblings of the principal action are displayed in the header on the right.

Context children of the root action are displayed in the footer.

Navigation children of the principal action are displayed in the navigation panel.
They can be grouped into categories and displayed as a list or as a tree depending on the navigation depth.

Context children of the principal action are displayed in the navigation bar to the right of the principal action.

Context children of the selected action are displayed to the right of the action header.

Action content is displayed in the content panel. 

Section children are displayed in the content panel below the action content.

Content left and content right children of the selected action are displayed in left and right sub-panels of the content panel.    

Let's take a quick look at a few examples of actions in different roles.

In this example "Joe Doe" is the root action and "Resume" is the principal action.
"Employment history" is a category grouping navigation actions Employer One, Employer Two, and Employer Three.
These actions do not have navigation children and therefore are shown as a list.

Skills is another action category. Skills navigation actions are nested and therefore are displayed as a tree.

In this example "Nasdanika" is the root action.
The principal action text is blank and therefore it is not shown.
"Documentation" and "Support" are second and third navigation children of the root action.
The footer contains context children of the root action.

All right, we are done with the theory! 
Now it is time to install the Nasdanika Tool Suite and get down to modeling and code generation!
   
 

 